Add evaluating values to hiring process (#1829)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/people-ops/hiring/evaluating_values.md

# Evaluating values in an interview

We expect every teammate, team, and our company to live up to the [Sourcegraph values](../../../company/values.md). It is therefore important that we evaluate every candidate on the values to determine how successful they will be within Sourcegraph.

We are actively working on creating a formal process for values interviewing ([Ops RFC 7](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d1a53dEP-k5Qsjv7BOAGq9lg4RL4Br7wg-weglJjHwY/edit)) to create a structured set of questions that are used consistently across the organization to evaluate value alignment.

## Rubric

In the short-term, the Product team is experimenting with having a values score card inside of feedback forms that uses the following rubric:

| Score | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | 👎👎 | Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value. |
> | 👎 | No evidence towards or against this value (neutral). |
> | 👍 | Demonstrated this value with evidence. |
> | 👍👍 | Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundant evidence. |
> 
> There is a text box for filling in any notes about the above value ratings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 👎👎 | Abundant evidence that this person 's behavior isn't aligned with this value. |
| 👎 | Evidence that this person 's behavior isn't aligned with this value.  |
| 👍 | Demonstrated this value with evidence. |
| 👍👍 | Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundant evidence. |

There is a text box for filling in any notes about the above value ratings.

If your interview did not get signal on a value (or if you got conflicting signals), then you can choose to not rate the value and instead share your thoughts in the open text box.
```

# Evaluating values in an interview

We expect every teammate, team, and our company to live up to the [Sourcegraph values](../../../company/values.md). It is therefore important taht we evaluate every candidate on the values to determin how successful they will be within Sourcegraph.

It is the responsibility of every interviewer to think about these values when interviewing a candidate. When submitting feedback for a candidate, copy the list of values into your notes and score the candidate out of 5 based on the rubric.

## Rubric

> Scored out of 5:

Reviewer: I like that you did this in your interview feedback, but I found these scores hard to quickly digest.

What do you think of this?

```suggestion
| Score | Description |
| --- | --- |
| -1 | Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value. |
| 0 | No evidence towards or against this value (neutral). |
| 1 | Demonstrated this value with evidence. |
| 2 | Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundant evidence. |
```

> - 1 - Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value
> - 2 - I did not have any evidence towards or against this value (neutral)
> - 3 - Gave the impression they have this value, but lacking evidence
> - 4 - Demonstrated this value with evidence
> - 5 - Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundent evidence

Reviewer: I like that you did this in your interview feedback, but I found these scores hard to quickly digest.

What do you think of this?

```suggestion
| Score | Description |
| --- | --- |
| -1 | Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value. |
| 0 | No evidence towards or against this value (neutral), or there were both positive and negative examples. |
| 1 | Demonstrated this value with evidence. |
| 2 | Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundant evidence. |
```

We could also expand this

> Scored out of 5:
> 
> - 1 - Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value
> - 2 - I did not have any evidence towards or against this value (neutral)
> - 3 - Gave the impression they have this value, but lacking evidence
> - 4 - Demonstrated this value with evidence
> - 5 - Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundent evidence

Reviewer: I like that you did this in your interview feedback, but I found these scores hard to quickly digest.

What do you think of this?

```suggestion
| Score | Description |
| --- | --- |
| -1 | Exhibited behavior that is contrary to this value. |
| 0 | No evidence towards or against this value (neutral). |
| 1 | Demonstrated this value with evidence. |
| 2 | Exceptionally demonstrated this value, with abundant evidence. |
```

Reviewer: When scoring, I would want to have a brief explanation that points to the points of evidence for or against (which can be explained in more detail elsewhere in the feedback)

Reviewer: Other note: I deleted "Gave the impression they have this value, but lacking evidence" because I think it risks bias and also I don't think we need more granularity on the margin. We want clear evidence and the rubric should highlight when we don't have that.

Author: Love this suggestion!

## Values to copy into feedback

Use this plaintext format for easy addition to the Lever feedback area.

```markdown
- Be customer driven:
- Work as a team:
- High agency:
- High quality:

> - Open and transparent:

Reviewer: Does good communication fall under this?

Author: Yes, I think so. Where can we clarify this?

Reviewer: My instinct is that we should come up with rubric that is informed by our values, but not necessarily exactly the values 1-1, because that will make it easier to evaluate candidates.

For example:

- Customer(/outcome/metrics?) driven
- Collaborative (I think this covers both work as a team and be a good human)
- High agency
- Iterative
- Effective communication (clear, succinct)
- Growth mindset
- Authentic and kind

Author: After setting this aside for a bit, I actually think feeling like we need to move away from our values to other rubrics means that our values are not quite right. We should live by and evaluate base on our values and use those as the rubric, otherwise this will lead to confusion and misalignment over time.

Reviewer: I am fine with that. I think just having more alignment/training/details on what these value mean will help (in the values handbook page)

Author: I completely agree. I don't think it hurts to add this change (or the questions) in the meantime while we work on the RFC proposal to get that in place. Perhaps adding a note here to indicate that the work you mention is in progress?
